okay
logite is a multi-disciplinary artist
and educator creating art that
interrogates performance extended
reality and physical Computing to
question our current forms of
communication they are passionate about
discovering learning and manifest
manifesting and stewarding spaces for
liberated black realities and the black
imagination logene believes in making by
diving into navigating critiquing and
breaking systems and technologies that
uphold systemic injustices to
decommodify our bodies undo our
indoctrination and make room for
different ways of being
has had the opportunity to show and
speak about their work at Pioneer Works
National sawdust leaders in software and
art Creative Tech week and art encodes
weird reality they were previously the
director of skating at figure skating in
Harlem where they integrated Steam and
figure skating to teach girls of color
about movement and Technology they have
continued their research on Blackness
movement and Technology during
residencies and fellowships at the
Jerome hill art artist Fellowship I-beam
Pioneer Works Barbarian group and
Barnard College
um most
um and I'd say most recently the project
that has really been inspiring me from
La Genie's work is the black movement
Library one of the works from that
project is currently on view in our
online exhibition diorama which you can
check out at newart.city www.newart.city
without further Ado I'm going to pass it
over to La Janae
hi my name is McMillan and I'm a New
Media artist and educator creating art
that integrates performance extended
reality and physical Computing to
question our current forms of
communication I am passionate about
discovering learning manifesting and
stewarding spaces for liberated black
realities and the black imagination I
believe in making by diving into
navigating critiquing and breaking
systems and technologies that uphold
systemic injustices to decommodify our
bodies and do our indoctrination and
make rooms for different ways of being
in the past few years access to motion
capture data 3D character-based models
and software to make animation yourself
as skyrocketed from make human to miximo
to Carnegie mellon's motion capture
database the ability to make and finish
college projects has become easier for
many and while these resources are
extremely helpful to create a range of
tools and projects they lack tools to
create diverse characters and movements
unexplored by systems that Center
assumptions of neutrality
and so I began work on the black
movement Library which started as an
online database of black motion capture
data and black character-based models
however when I first started this
project I realized that representation
was well enough especially when that
representation enrolled there's little
to positively affect the lives of black
folks and our communities
you first need to understand how our
movements and bodies are already
represented in the media and in the
tools we use
it is important for us to be aware of
this in making projects in new digital
spaces that are designed as inherently
and predominantly white spaces what does
it mean to possibly repurpose or
redesign these spaces to effectively
tell and share black stories in ways of
protect and honor us and that are above
all for us
in 2018 losses were file against
fortnite for using dances for mainly
black creators without permission
compensation or credit the milligraph
became swipe it the Carlton became the
first effectively erasing the origins of
these dances however currently Lawson's
on pause because his dances are not
considered choreography under copyright
law
also when looking for culturally
specific movements in existing motion
capture databases you may find some but
are often met with dances and movements
that don't reflect the Search terms also
in the name of making it easy to use
these tools often omit valuable
information from the users including
information about motion capture actors
who provided the movements as well as
important historical and cultural
information about the movements
performed
the common thread of these two examples
is the oversimplification of our people
our stories and our lives and it exists
in a network of systems that commodify
quantify and degrade our Humanity in
order to capitalize off of our existence
and being
and so how do we combat the
commodification exploitation evasion and
dilution of black culture and black
people
what do cultural reparations look like
and what does accountability look like
how do we begin the work of holding
these platforms of the past present and
future accountable while fairly
compensating and crediting not only the
individual black people it affects but
the black communities across the
diaspora
how can we discover learn invest in in
Steward systems that prioritize
Liberation and abundance
[Music]
movement does not only represent our
individual experiences but it also
represents our Collective memory
transcending space time and oppressive
social structures it allows us to
connect to each other our ancestors our
deeper selves and gives us space to
communicate to our future movement is a
technology holding the stories of our
existence over the diaspora
our bodies and movements are more than
data points and avatars they hold our
humanity and it's time for digital
spaces to reflect that and for all
spaces we enter to reflect that
so what does it mean to ethically
digitize black movement how can it
better serve and celebrate the community
how can we effectively challenge digital
tools and Landscapes that don't share
these values and gain Liberation in our
productive future
thank you
the black movement library is a library
for activists performers and artists to
create extended reality projects a
special space to research how to Lobby
move and an archive of docking systems
black movement Library seeks to grow
community Through the use of
performances instead of reality
experiences workshops conversations and
Tool making
movement portraits serve as a way to
learn about the lives of the performers
contributing their movement data to the
black movement Library what happens when
we ritualize the archival process of
data collection and invite the community
using motion capture and unreal engines
performance and their movement data to
be translated into visuals in real time
each experience ranges from 5 to 10
minutes the first movement portraits
feature maladima Ronaldo Maurice UB
Gaskins
Sophia Santana and rukaya West
over the course of development
interviews a recording of each performer
learning their movement histories
interviews are then embedded into the
soundscapes that performers here too
allowing the audience to dive into their
lives and learn about how black movement
has been used as a tool of the
preservation of Black Culture as well as
a vehicle of self-evolution
while movement portraits are real-time
motion capture performance they are also
translated in archives as VR and single
Channel video experiences this allows
movement to be re-represented as an
abstract digital memory of the
performance day
[Music]
is
understanding transforming and
preserving movement in digital spaces is
a workshop to learn about extended
reality Tools in relationship to race
gender and culture this Workshop
explores issues of cultural
representation and exploitation through
readings and discussions while also
providing an introduction to motion
capture rigging in 3D environments core
elements of this Workshop integrate
performance extended reality and
physical Computing to question access
control of representation
in this Workshop we dive into a
framework that I've been investigating
researching and developing with others
they go out into the World by working
with different digital Technologies
understanding why they work and what
they get wrong they come back to Itself
by discovering diving into and
developing iron body Technologies I
asked students to enter the space with
our whole cells and that we spend time
to witness another can this intersection
of different fields help us to unravel
and understand how our Humanity weaves
through the recordings of our movements
the modelings of our bodies and the 3D
realizations of the worlds we wish to be
in
ask them ask students a hack the
traditional ways in which we learn and
engage with digital tools by embedding
our whole cells into the process in
which we produce this Workshop depends
on incentives process what portals of
new connections can we discover together
conversations bring together black
people from different fields from
different perspectives to dive into
these questions with community
each conversation is recorded in
archives in the library for the first
conversation I long guest speakers Amy
married class Yelp associate professor
of anthropology and African American
studies along with writer and motion
designer Youssef Cole came together to
parse all of these questions in
relationship to their own personal
practices and research recently I also
was able to speak with artists and
organizers Omar said about black
movement
the black wizard library is a movement
it is a movement that celebrates black
history and black scripture it is a
movement that serves us Community to
learn and grow as Society evolves it is
a movement that holds us accountable in
the ways we deal with black people our
movements our bodies and our lives
thank you
[Music]
my whole family family soccer friends
that's another thing
[Music]
I was 10 years 10 years 10 years
San Antonio
[Music]
a lot
all right
[Music]
everybody
um I'm live with Julia and lodging a
McMillan majinay it's so amazing to have
you here
um and you know this your talk was so
you said some things that I think people
really need to hear right now and that
these are issues and ideas you know
related to reparations related to
appropriation that you know are so
crucial as we think about building new
worlds as we think about rewriting the
races to the problematic protocols that
are embedded within our current systems
um and you know I'm just I'm so thrilled
to have included your voice in in this
conversation
um
you also I'll mention quickly too that
you also have work in the gray area
um work from the bach movement Library
uh project some of the motion capture
performance and uh videos
um so definitely go check that out at
www.uart.c
um and I'll do a little bit of screen
share in a few minutes a little taste
um
but you know logite I you know just to
start us off I'd love to hear a little
bit about what you're working on now
because we've been in contact for I
think just about two years we've known
each other and have you know we've
worked on a couple I've been you know
we've I've worked on your work a couple
of different shows
um and I through that time I've gotten
to see uh things at the black movement
Library expand and evolve and I've seen
you kind of uh you know make one Mark
and you know in the nft space and then
you know other
um other exhibitions there was a really
amazing presentation at the heart at the
Brooklyn Public Library a couple months
ago so I'd love to hear what you're
working on now and what your current
focus is and kind of uh from that
trajectory kind of where where you're
headed
yeah so right now
um I'm working on a performance piece oh
um it's it's pretty much in the next
phase
um from antidote which started as a
video work so um right now we're working
with
um six students from the Lower East Side
of Manhattan as well as
um three students from
um South Brooklyn high school and so
it's pretty much like a cross between
like two different high schools and
we're working with them to create
um an immersive liberated reality with
them so it's a performance piece
um and it'll be about like an hour long
and it'll it'll also be a live motion
capture performance so yeah I I guess
I've been working on just like crosses
between live performance live motion
capture performance
um as well as with movement portraits
I've been
um now turning that into
um an online
um an online uh web XR experience too
um we'll sort of cross between like
online and like downloadable XR
experience so
um yeah basically uh with the movement
portraits I was able to
um when I did the Brooklyn Public
Library experience
um
that was like live outdoors and
essentially what happens is that I now
go through this process of turning that
live performance into
um both the 2D like video experience as
well as a more like um in-depth
um VR experience too so um the
performance itself gets archived in that
way
um
yeah so it's sort of like transforms
into something different but also sort
of speaks to
um what happened that day
um
yeah
all right can you explain what exactly
mean by XR
and what that look how that how your
work translates to that Medium
yeah so um XR stands for extended
reality which is um an umbrella term for
virtual reality augmented reality and
mixed reality
um and so
um basically the tool that I use for all
of my visuals is Unreal Engine which is
a gaming engine
um that creates a lot of like different
video games but you can also do
um what I love about unreal is that you
can essentially create
um all different various types of
projects with just one engine so I use
it for video artwork like all of the
work right now because it's made in the
engine it can literally
um be transferred into like a virtual
reality experience an augmented reality
experience
um 2D video which is like sort of which
is actually what I
um am showing in the um show
um
you you just get the option to be able
to
um
make so many different
um Medias like your mediums like you get
to like sort of weave in and out of them
with one tool um which is really really
cool
um so yeah okay thank you
clarity that's awesome
um and I want to like you know sorry I
just I have to get myself site to pause
the the new art city for a second
um but yeah here's the work that I'm
showing here and I'm just going to keep
this kind of running in the background
so uh you can get a sense of the the
aesthetic of Longines work while we're
while we're chatting
um I want to go back to this phrase that
you just used uh you know to describe
this performance work um with the with
the students in Manhattan
um of I believe you said performance
liberated reality
um and you spoke a little bit about this
in your presentation but I was wondering
if you could dig in a little bit more
and kind of help us understand what that
means
um and how we may be able to to achieve
it
um yeah so based
be some
sort of like what I what I spoke about a
little bit in the talk is that these
tools that we're working with are
um inherently biased so
um essentially
that
that in and of itself sort of like I
guess like reflects the the outer worlds
that we live in
um
and sometimes I feel like we always
uh what's the word like we Center the
tools we centered like the digital
platforms that we use
um in our everyday lives and so what my
work asks us to do is to um
still work with these tools
um in these platforms but to decenter
them as the
um
only powerful source that there is
um and so I feel like we're living in um
I guess like multiple realities already
like and I would just say like the the
easiest way to sort of explain this is
um you know I would just say like a dual
reality where it's like on one hand
we're living in um a world that's like
super oppressive there's a lot of
different oppressive systems around us
um and as we navigate and move through
those spaces
um you know it's just really hard
especially for um folks who are coming
from marginalized communities so but
then on the other hand I do feel like
there is an inherent liberated reality
um that's also present in our everyday
lives
um I am you know a heavy like a heavy
manifester you know like someone who
deeply and truly believes that like I
can manifest those reality like I can
manifest like anything that um I want to
see and so um basically manifesting a
liberated reality
um in my work what I sort of um Define
that as is
basically asking a question of like what
does that look like how does that
um expand as I grow as I learn
um how can I do that with other people
how can I do this work with other people
what does it look like visually
um what does it feel like how do I
immerse myself in it and also it's a
it's an understanding that that really
reality that that that reality exists
already
um that that liberated reality exists
and um
we just have to tap into it
um and we have to be
um
and so like what does it mean to
continuously tap into to subscribe to
um that space to that reality
um and what does it mean to you know
continue building it up to a point where
um I can unsubscribe from the from the
oppressive reality because like at the
end of the day you know like right now
we have to like we have to like live in
that space and um but really what I'm
hoping for is to inspire folks to really
really take into consideration that
we're all World Builders and that we're
all World building every day and that
you know yes we live in these systems
now but we also have opportunities to
create and build new systems with each
other
um and we don't have to perpetuate those
systems
um those oppressive systems on ourselves
are on each other
um so it starts like you know person to
person but then it can grow outwards
um to the communities that we're shaping
and that were that we're living in so
yeah it's like okay
um how do we manifest that how do we how
do we stay in that um and I guess like
one part of also just like manifesting
is just is really having this deep
knowing this deep understanding this
deep faith that
um whatever it is that you are
manifesting already exists so
yeah
did that answer you
absolutely absolutely yeah
yeah sometimes I can just like ramble
and stuff that was all like
so you know just building off of that a
little bit
um I wanted to ask um you know we I've
been mentioning the the movement
portraits and the movement Library
um but it was wondering if you could
expand a little bit more on
um you know how that works and how that
archive is working to lead us towards
that liberated reality
um and because I know that there's such
a strong and vibrant ethic of care
um and consideration and protection that
you know accompanies this project and I
think that that's a a an ethos and a
model and a work Praxis that
is so valuable and so wholesome
um wholesome is not the right word that
sounds corny I mean not awesome I mean
uh
generatives maybe a better word
yeah so I guess like for me
um right now
um
I sort of like flipped the
the archive I guess like on its head
um because when I first started the
project I was like very much just like
oh I need to get content I need to get
content I need to get like movement I
need to get data but then I wasn't
really like thinking about what that
meant and and what that really what that
truly meant and how that sort of um how
even just like that thought process of
of just thinking in that way
um can also be like dehumanizing in
itself it's like you know these
movements are coming from a person who
is um who has a full life and so what
does it mean to
um
what does it mean to Archive like
Snippets of people's lives and people's
Journeys
um what what does that process look like
um and then it sort of like dives into
um relationships and and building and
creating relationships with the people
that I work with
um especially as I'm recording their
movements so like with this first like
with the first two movement portraits
which are in the show
um you know I worked with two
um two performers who also performed in
the Brooklyn Public Library so sort of
seeing that transition that change over
time because people change and grow and
and being able to interview them like
two years later two years um well no
three years like after the first
performance to sort of see like how
they've changed and how they've grown
over time is like really really
um special to me and also I realized too
that there is like
being like a technologist but also being
like a mover myself
um there's been I had realized that
there was there's this there's sometimes
this like really
um
toxic like relationship between like
technologists and and um the the the
people that they work with like the
dancers that they work with or the
performers that they work with it's it's
very much like uh it's very like
disconnected sometimes because I feel
like for a technologists it's just like
what can I do like how can I make this
thing and it's very like you you're just
like a subject or an object in my piece
like you know and it's very like that
process is also dehumanizing it's like
okay like how do you sort of take a step
you know you know get knocked down a few
pegs and like be human yourself like
um and then also realize that you're
co-creating with the people that you're
working with so it's like I'm not doing
this by myself I'm not being like a um
I'm not like
uh I guess like like I'm allowing people
to be who they are and I am
um sort of recording that I'm witnessing
that you know and I am creating
representations of that
um but we're more like collaborators
rather than just me like doing
everything and you know the people being
like little I guess like specs of data
like you know these like sort of
datified or
um Quantified elements
um and I think like that sort of like
goes into this process of like
you know decommodification because I
feel like
um
sometimes these relationships that we
have with performers can be very
um
just very like what's the word it's like
it's like just ill like not even just
like with technologists like in a lot of
different ways in a lot of different
spaces I feel like performers are just
taking advantage of so it's like okay
like this is really speaking to that
it's like okay like how can I do this in
a way where I'm caring about people
it's like
radical
it's like oh my gosh I mean I totally
feel that though you know it seems like
you know in you know we've been talking
a lot this weekend out about you know
the recent news of Facebook and the
whistleblowers and you know all of the
horrible things that have been allowed
to come to pass that were more known
about
um and it does feel radical to you know
in bed care into something and you know
that kind of leads me to my next
question because I really wanted to ask
you know
obviously we're in a society and we're
constricted by technological systems
that are particularly extractive and
exploitative of black people and of
people of color
um and so I would love you know to you
know from your perspective as a
technologist as a mover yourself as a
figure skater and a dancer and so many
other things
um what sorts of protocols do you want
to see written or how would you rewrite
those systems in order to suit you to
suit your community and to suit the
ideals and the morals that you you hold
dear
so really like
um that's a heavy one I feel like right
now what I've been really focused on in
my work is this idea of
um or this term that was coined in one
of my workshops
um called embodied metadata so basically
embodied metadata is like the data about
the data that our bodies like produce
that sort of like show the fullness of
Our Lives
um and essentially with that
um it's like this realization that our
body itself is a technology
um and it holds like so many various
different Technologies
um in ways that we communicate and
connect with each other so what does it
mean to like re-center the body
um to recenter our bodies and how we
connect with one another and how can we
use that as a way to sort of navigate
and hack and critique the digital tools
and spaces that we enter and move
through
um so yeah so it's like a re-centering
of the self
um together in a way and and and pushing
that forward and saying that like even
though these tools exist
um I exist too and also you know I'm
here because of you know my ancestors
Journeys
um
and that lineage and they have left for
me
um
just a wealth of knowledge and tools and
and space to to really make and create
and think and um and dream so
so yeah like
um trying to like
find out and understand what those
ancestral Technologies are too
um trying to live in those spaces
because I also feel like
the tools exist like we just have to
like
use them and tap into them like we just
need to like know know them more yeah
yeah and find them and um discover them
and and understand them
and learn them but it's hard because you
know
time it's like you know we're living in
like a capitalist society and it's like
you know one of the things that
is hard to sort of navigate is is
actually being able to have the time to
take the time to learn and use those
tools because it's going to be a little
bit harder and a little bit it's going
to take more time to do that you know
and not everyone has that time and
especially like for folks who
like if the thing is like you know time
is money right like whatever but so it's
like you know you don't if you don't
have money if you don't have the money
to do it then it's like it's hard it's
harder to actually do that thing so for
me it was just like okay like when I did
well now I'm starting to get some money
but like before it was like even when I
didn't have money I was just like well
you know
I'm just going to do it anyway I'm just
gonna be broke to figure it out
I mean like I mean it wasn't like a good
I mean it was a good move but like it
because like now I can start to see like
oh like this is all starting to work out
for me now but yeah I was just like oh
shoot like this is this is hard like
this is it was not a mood for a while so
it was not a mood I mean yeah it's so
hard I mean even just like the cost of a
motion capture suit is like so
prohibitively expensive it's not
something that the average person can
just walk up and use
um but you know in the you know you were
talking about time lodging and I know
that you have to go
um and they were a little bit over but I
appreciate you being here so much and
there are some more questions from the
audience that we didn't get to answer
there were questions about the
copywriting of uh choreography the
copywriting of motion capture files
um and whether that's a a viable
mechanism for
um you know supporting black dancers
black creators um helping them to gain
sovereignty over their work we don't
have a ton of time to talk about this
but everybody head to Twitter
um I'll start some threads maybe we can
get a little conversation going there
um and uh discuss some of the
possibilities and Pathways that are are
available thank you so much logite
thank you thanks for having me good to
see you thank you so much
[Music]